# Predicting-socio-economic-indicators-using-Satellite-Imagery-
Satellite Data Analysis

Collecting reliable data about economic and social livelihood that help us predict human development is challenging in a developing country environment. Several nationally representative household and census surveys conducted by government authorities are expensive and happen at irregular intervals. In an attempt to serve as a proxy to this data constraint and achieve data-driven policy making, innovative solutions that use machine learning and satellite imagery technology to predict development are being studied. Previously, researchers have used high resolution satellite imagery to measure economic livelihoods of African countries. Building on this work, we explore the applications of convolution neural networks and transfer learning techniques to process daytime satellite imagery to measure wide ranging socio-economic development indicators in India at a finer spatial granularity – the village level. We train CNN models on open source, multi-spectral daytime satellite images of India from the Landsat 7 satellite. Along with this we also show comparison between deep learning models trained on ImageNet and deep learning models trained on DeepSat. Our next goal is to build an aggregate development index at the village- level, synchronous to the existing Human Development Index (HDI) and show high accuracy in predicting the index based on satellite data for different years. Our research could help to guide data-driven policy making at fine spatial and temporal scales, hence overcoming the need to conduct continuous expensive censuses and surveys on the ground. In addition to this, to make our research and findings known to the citizens of India we plan to create a socio-economic development dashboard, which would display info-graphics and accompanying mass media opinions on these indicators.
